.. _`modifying existing app with Elixir releases`:

Using Elixir Releases
---------------------

Configuration and Secrets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Gigalixir auto-detects that you want to use Elixir Releases if you have a :bash:`config/releases.exs` file, so let's create one.

.. Note:: Elixir 1.11 adds :bash:`config/runtime.exs`. If you use that instead, then you'll want to specify buildpacks since we can no longer detect if you want releases or mix mode. See :ref:`buildpacks-releases`.

.. code-block:: bash

    echo "import Config" > config/releases.exs

The only configuration change we really need to do now is make sure the web server is started. Add the following to your :bash:`releases.exs`.

.. code-block:: bash

    config :gigalixir_getting_started, GigalixirGettingStartedWeb.Endpoint,
      server: true,
      http: [port: {:system, "PORT"}], # Needed for Phoenix 1.2 and 1.4. Doesn't hurt for 1.3.
      url: [host: System.get_env("APP_NAME") <> ".gigalixirapp.com", port: 443]

1. Replace :elixir:`:gigalixir_getting_started` with your app name e.g. :elixir:`:my_app`
2. Replace :elixir:`GigalixirGettingStartedWeb.Endpoint` with your endpoint module name. You can find your endpoint module name by running something like

   .. code-block:: bash

     grep -R "defmodule.*Endpoint" lib/

   Phoenix 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 give different names so this is a common source of errors.

If you're using a free tier database, be sure to also set your pool size to 2 in :bash:`prod.exs`.

You don't have to worry about setting your :bash:`SECRET_KEY_BASE` config because we generate one and set it for you. 

Verify
^^^^^^

Let's make sure everything works.

First, try building static assets

.. code-block:: bash

    mix deps.get
    cd assets
    npm install
    npm run deploy
    cd ..
    mix phx.digest

and building a release locally

.. code-block:: bash

    export SECRET_KEY_BASE="$(mix phx.gen.secret)" 
    export DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/foo"
    MIX_ENV=prod mix release 

and running it locally

.. code-block:: bash

    MIX_ENV=prod APP_NAME=gigalixir_getting_started PORT=4000 _build/prod/rel/gigalixir_getting_started/bin/gigalixir_getting_started start

Don't forget to replace :bash:`gigalixir_getting_started` with your own app name. Also, change/add the environment variables as needed.

Check it out.

.. code-block:: bash

    curl localhost:4000

If that didn't work, the first place to check is :bash:`prod.exs`. Make sure you have :elixir:`server: true` somewhere and there are no typos.

Also check out :ref:`troubleshooting`.

If it still doesn't work, don't hesitate to :ref:`contact us<help>`.

If everything works, commit the changes

.. code-block:: bash

    git add config/prod.exs assets/package-lock.json config/releases.exs
    git commit -m 'releases configuration'

Continue to :ref:`set up deploys`.

.. _`buildpacks-releases`:

Specify Buildpacks (optional)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We rely on buildpacks to compile and build your release. We auto-detect a variety of buildpacks so you probably don't need this, but if you want
to specify your own buildpacks create a :bash:`.buildpacks` file with the buildpacks you want. For example,

.. code-block:: bash

    https://github.com/HashNuke/heroku-buildpack-elixir
    https://github.com/gjaldon/heroku-buildpack-phoenix-static
    https://github.com/gigalixir/gigalixir-buildpack-releases.git

.. Note:: It's important that you do not include :bash:`release=true` in your :bash:`elixir_buildpack.config`. The causes the elixir buildpack to generate a release which conflicts with the release generated by :bash:`gigalixir-buildpack-releases`.

.. Note:: If you need to configure your release in :bash:`mix.exs` make sure the release name matches your app name (also defined in mix.exs, not your gigalixir app name). 

:bash:`heroku-buildpack-phoenix-static` is optional if you do not have Phoenix static assets. For more information about buildpacks, see :ref:`life of a deploy`.

Note, that the command that gets run in production depends on what your last buildpack is.

- If the last buildpack is :bash:`gigalixir-buildpack-releases`, then the command run will be :bash:`/app/bin/foo start`.
- If the last buildpack is :bash:`heroku-buildpack-phoenix-static`, then the command run will be :bash:`mix phx.server`.
- If the last buildpack is :bash:`heroku-buildpack-elixir`, then the command run will be :bash:`mix run --no-halt`.

If your command is :bash:`mix run --no-halt`, but you are running Phoenix (just not the assets pipeline), make sure you set :elixir:`server: true` in :bash:`prod.exs`.

